---
permalink: /hw/1
math: true
layout: default
---

>_Create a GitHub account. As a student, you should be able to open up a free eucational account. This needs to be done before you start any homework in the class. Also, start a repository for the class and start up a web page on your GitHub site. There are tutorials on github.com that will help you with this problem._

### Solution

# \\[ \checkmark \text{done} \\]

>_Write a code to determine the machine epsilon or the precision of any computer. Choose a language and make sure the code is well documented and also make sure that the code is reusable as a function, method, or subroutine._

### Solution

```C++
/* ===== TODO ===== */
```

>_Use Markdown to create a software manual entry on your GitHub account._

### Solution

See the [home page](/) for links to software manuals.

>_Write two methods/functions that compute the absolute and relative error in the approximation of one number by another. Make sure that you include entries in your software manual._

### Solution

```C++
/* ===== TODO ===== */
```

>_Classify each of the following differential equations. This also means classifying the partial differential equations as in class. Make sure to justify your answer._

1. \\( x^2y'' - (1-x)y' + 6y = sin(x) \\)
  * TODO
2. \\( x^2y'' - (1-x)y' + 6y = xsin(x) \\)
  * TODO
3. \\( u_t - 4u_x = x \\)
  * TODO
5. \\( u_t - 4u_x = u \\)
  * TODO
6. \\( u_t - 4(\frac{u^2}{2})_x = u\\)
  * TODO
7. \\( u_{tt} - 4u_{xx} = sin(xy) \\)
  * TODO
8. \\( u_{tt} - 4u_{xx} = tanh(u) \\)
  * TODO

>_Compute the analytic solution of the following logistic differential equation_
> \\[ \frac{dP}{dt} = \alpha P - \beta P^2 \\]
>_for the parameters \\( \alpha \\) and \\( \beta \\) and initial condition \\( P(0) := P_0 \\)_. Write a piece of code that will take the initial condition \\( P_0 \\) and \\( \alpha \\) and \\( \beta \\) as input and produce the value of the solution at an arbitrary point \\( t \\). We will use this as a test problem for our numerical methods.

```C++
/* ===== TODO ===== */
```
